_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "Hamidreza Ghafouri"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Welcome to my academic website! I am a PhD student in Bioinformatics at the [University of Padova](https://www.unipd.it/), Italy, working in the Department of Biomedical Sciences under the supervision of Prof. Silvio CE Tosatto.

## Research Interests

My research focuses on **intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs)** and their conformational ensembles. I am particularly interested in:

- **Computational methods** for determining and characterizing protein conformational ensembles
- **Bioinformatics databases** for intrinsically disordered proteins (DisProt, PED)
- **Integration of experimental and computational approaches** to study protein disorder
- **Structure-based drug design** and molecular docking (earlier work)

## Current Work

I am currently working on developing unified frameworks for determining conformational ensembles of disordered proteins, integrating both experimental biophysical data and computational modeling approaches. My work contributes to major bioinformatics databases including:

- **[DisProt](https://disprot.org)** - The gold standard database for intrinsically disordered proteins and regions
- **[PED](https://pedb.org)** - Protein Ensemble Database for structural ensembles of IDPs

## Recent Highlights

- **2024**: First-author publication in *Nucleic Acids Research* on PED database improvements
- **2024**: Co-authored DisProt 2024 update with 115+ citations
- **2026**: First-author review in *Current Opinion in Structural Biology* on advances in disordered protein ensemble determination
- **2025**: Co-authored work on unified frameworks for conformational ensemble determination (arXiv preprint)

## Publications

I have published 10+ peer-reviewed articles in leading journals including *Nucleic Acids Research*, *Current Opinion in Structural Biology*, and *Computational Biology and Chemistry*. You can find all my publications in the [Publications](/publications/) section.

## Contact

Feel free to reach out if you're interested in collaboration or have questions about my research:
- **Email**: hamidreza.ghafouri@studenti.unipd.it
- **Google Scholar**: [View my profile](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=RGlfs2MAAAAJ)
- **GitHub**: [hamidrgh](https://github.com/hamidrgh)

Commit message:

Update about page and publications with images

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "Hamidreza Ghafouri"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Welcome to my academic website! I am a PhD student in Biomedical Sciences at the [University of Padova](https://www.unipd.it/), Italy, working in the [BioComputinUP](https://biocomputingup.it/) lab under the supervision of Dr. Alexander Miguel Monzon & Prof. Silvio CE Tosatto.

## Research Interests

My research focuses on **intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs)** and their conformational ensembles. I am particularly interested in:

- **Computational methods** for determining and characterizing protein conformational ensembles
- **Bioinformatics databases** for intrinsically disordered proteins ([PED](https://proteinensemble.org/) & [DisProt](https://disprot.org/))
- **Integration of experimental and computational approaches** to study protein disorder
- **Structure-based drug design** and molecular docking (earlier work)

## Current Work

I am currently working on developing unified frameworks for determining conformational ensembles of disordered proteins, integrating both experimental biophysical data and computational modeling approaches. My work contributes to major bioinformatics databases including:

- **[PED](https://pedb.org)** - Protein Ensemble Database for structural ensembles of IDPs
- **[DisProt](https://disprot.org)** - The gold standard database for intrinsically disordered proteins and regions


## Recent Highlights

- **2025**: Our review has been published in *Current Opinion in Structural Biology* on advances in disordered protein ensemble determination
- **2025**: Our study on defining the unified frameworks for conformational ensemble determination (Accepted in Nature Methods)



## Publications

I have published 10+ peer-reviewed articles in leading journals including *Nucleic Acids Research*, *Current Opinion in Structural Biology*, and *Computational Biology and Chemistry*. You can find all my publications in the [Publications](/publications/) section.

## Contact

Feel free to reach out if you're interested in collaboration or have questions about my research:
- **Email**: hamidreza.ghafouri@studenti.unipd.it
- **Google Scholar**: [View my profile](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=RGlfs2MAAAAJ)
- **GitHub**: [hamidrgh](https://github.com/hamidrgh)
